Simon Dudley: Hello!
Antoine Toulme: Hello!
Jason Frame: This might be it for today.
It's usually pretty quiet in this time.
Jason Frame: Yeah, I think you're right. Yeah,
Jason Frame: I don't know we right? So
Jason Frame: I think you can stop.
Jason Frame: We know we share as current. I think it is
mhm
Jason Frame: right. Thank you. So
Jason Frame: okay, started it.
Jason Frame: Okay,
that
Jason Frame: alright, let's start with the housekeeping. So so the anti-trust policy. Um, I think everyone said, where are they
Jason Frame: so i'll skip past that to remind that it's been recorded. I want to be a list of speaking, and uh, you say handpage, or the pretty small call today, so I don't think that's pretty much an issue.
Jason Frame: So let's start with. So, general announcements, there's got nothing but something on the agenda here today. Won't. Have any general announcements they would like to make.
Jason Frame: Okay,
Jason Frame: we've got a remarkable view, but I don't think that's been updated. I'll just check that. Um
Jason Frame: Yeah. Last was on August eleventh, So I don't think there's any any changes in the room that to look at. Uh. So let's say one one that
I think it makes sense to
Jason Frame: so look at that
Jason Frame: Sorry
Jason Frame: we did have some
Jason Frame: details here on the release update side.
Jason Frame: So the twenty-two
Jason Frame: I see one has gone out Um! Recently. Um!
Jason Frame: So that's great starting on the the new series. Um!
Jason Frame: So you won't have any
Jason Frame: comments, or when I don't talk about that at all on Oh,
Jason Frame: is there any particular changes that we're having to get in for the twenty dot dot ten to zero um series, or
Sally MacFarlane: I notice there's an item further down under work updates um about trying to get Java Seventeen update into two.
Sally MacFarlane: I'm not sure how feasible that is. How far along that
Sally MacFarlane: working. I'm not sure if there's any Boxers on that one.
Jason Frame: Okay, you know, is that one Actually, Do you know who's working on the and getting job seventeen? Or is that just something that we'd like to get in.
Sally MacFarlane: Then I was driving it. I'm just not sure where it's up to. I know some.
Okay.
Sally MacFarlane: It's good how to you update on that thing at the moment with that down here, and We' to take the discussion.
Jason Frame: Yeah, yeah, sorry.
Jason Frame: All right. This discussion in the
Jason Frame: Okay,
Jason Frame: I guess the release uh just to a channel,
Jason Frame: and they
Jason Frame: this moon, will they, will they some nice They We got the twenty-eight dot seven dot six that went out and had that hot fix in there for the um one cache um fix.
Jason Frame: So that's great. Um!
Jason Frame: I feel that we, the last of the holy we need to do
Jason Frame: um.
Jason Frame: They're doing one more time. So anything about that release? So
Jason Frame: um, we think we're not in here or not.
Jason Frame: Yeah, familiar with it other than the nine Um,
Jason Frame: the move to Github, c. I.
Jason Frame: Does anyone know where that is at the moment?
Antoine Toulme: Yeah, really. So
Antoine Toulme: been working on this on enough. Um! It's pretty close uh
Antoine Toulme: I was having one issue with the acceptance that I think it fixed. Uh,
Antoine Toulme: if you let me put in a chair. There is a reference to the outstanding Pr. For this.
Let me see it
here.
Antoine Toulme: So
Antoine Toulme: nice Chat.
Antoine Toulme: Okay, um.
Antoine Toulme: So
Antoine Toulme: let me see. This has been replaced of the latest lane, I think
Antoine Toulme: it still is already of out of luck. Um! There are two issues. One is the build arm sixty-four docker, which is taken looking to, and another one is that the acceptance test are a little frivolous sometimes. Still,
Antoine Toulme: so they give me. They give me some trouble. Um. One of them, for example, just got stuck for thirty minutes today,
Antoine Toulme: and then that kind of cancelled the whole bill. But I think we're fairly close. Um, I wanted to make sure we built consensus on that. So it's not you surprised this is happening?
Antoine Toulme: Um, Do you have any questions for me about any of that.
Jason Frame: So you
Jason Frame: this to replace the um.
Antoine Toulme: Yes, yeah.
Jason Frame: What um is there an impact on the bill? Time using?
Antoine Toulme: Um? I don't think so. Um. So the build itself is actually very fast if you, if you go to it and look at the checks. Um! There is a
Antoine Toulme: there should be on it.
Jason Frame: Are you main from the from this? Um: Yeah.
Yep.
Jason Frame: Bye,
Antoine Toulme: I should be able to see it in the the Ci for click on here in checks.
Antoine Toulme: Then there is a a view
Antoine Toulme: of it.
Antoine Toulme: So you go go all the way back up, and um! There's
Antoine Toulme: click on that. Now in the checks you can click on Ci in the on your left at the bottom.
Jason Frame: Okay, and click on that
Antoine Toulme: nice going to show you a picture of what the prioritization level is
Antoine Toulme: so. What's pretty interesting here is that we're able to capitalize and reuse the artifacts. We can do a different steps. The compile step, for example is going to compile the code down and then hash it out and make sure that Sorry create a hash of the compiled class files, so that it's able to reuse them later.
Antoine Toulme: Uh which makes integration test, for example, very fast. Um same for assemble
Antoine Toulme: the test and windows also.
Antoine Toulme: Um. This helps This helps go much much faster.
Antoine Toulme: Um! So the panel test is the the matrix of the bomb,
Antoine Toulme: and you can see we we have like eight runners right Now
Antoine Toulme: most of them takes five, four, three. There's only one runner which is really slow. It's ninety minutes.
Antoine Toulme: Um! So the idea is to,
Antoine Toulme: and of course, when it got stuck in good, you know, ten out thirty minutes.
Antoine Toulme: So the idea is to get faster to the of resolution. We're able to see one of the fails happen. Um! And then very quickly, uh start with, you know, responding to that.
Antoine Toulme: Um, by all means. This is not perfect in this love.
Antoine Toulme: The checks themselves are happening outside into a different workflow.
Antoine Toulme: So we could also decide that this is not what we want, and we want to have different files for this. But this allows us to kind of
Antoine Toulme: go quickly about those, the steps.
Okay.
Antoine Toulme: So if you Oh, sorry alright, i'll come back. Um.
Antoine Toulme: So if you just cool down on on that page which might Yes, you can keep scrolling down you'll see that uh, even more uh you'll see that we are actually capturing artifacts. Part of this,
Antoine Toulme: and we are able to get some metadata. From. From all this information we can get the the journey test themselves become available to us as the files you can download uh to open up, and then you also have the bt to start seeing additional information different summaries.
Antoine Toulme: Uh, you can even see if caching is actually being reused or not. So
Antoine Toulme: this is. This is so much as for because it shows whether the bill was actually um performance or not.
Okay,
Jason Frame: So we just need um.
Antoine Toulme: The final question.
Jason Frame: That's right.
Antoine Toulme: And just in a final push I need to fix those two things. Uh, it seems like the docker build is escaping you again, and I need to fix the exceptions test that uh seem to be stuck on one thing,
Antoine Toulme: and then we we might be in good shape.
Antoine Toulme: Oh, for the acceptance test! I was wondering if we're still running to be if you test it's part of a
Antoine Toulme: in the chrome acceptance. This, or are we? Are we no longer doing that
Antoine Toulme: because they are feeling?
Sally MacFarlane: Uh? Can you share information about which test specifically are failing. Is it acceptance that we're running?
Antoine Toulme: So maybe i'm asking you the same question. We just awesome. I like passing right now in Ci. I I mean the way I see this right now. We're currently running a maven uh plugin test. This is chrome acceptance test, and it's running it through a set of big files, apparently
Antoine Toulme: one of them. For some reason it's not always the same. One
Antoine Toulme: seems to be a little wiggly for some reason, so i'm not sure if it's the nature of us running it in Github. Um
Antoine Toulme: um. There seems to be some sitting there. There. It's just. There's just one failure at this point.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah. So I think we were previously running those on Ps through Ci the circle. Ci. But um like you've been. So there was some flicking is there, so we switch to running it in a nightly
Sally MacFarlane: bill through Circle Ci um!
Sally MacFarlane: So right now we're not running on Every pr
Antoine Toulme: net is I'll. I'll just remove them from the from the Ci, because that's
Antoine Toulme: not if not needed anymore.
Antoine Toulme: And then they will take care of my video. For instance.
Antoine Toulme: Thank you.
Okay,
Antoine Toulme: It's great news. This work for me.
Jason Frame: Yeah, that's good.
Jason Frame: So that sounds like It's pretty question There,
Antoine Toulme: Yeah, I just wanted to let you know this happening, and if you have any questions about
Antoine Toulme: why, how?
Antoine Toulme: Um, please let me know. It's a good time.
Sally MacFarlane: So I I had a question around um
Sally MacFarlane: the like financial side of it, like I know that we weren't really sure how the cost was going to compare with Secleci versus Github actions.
Antoine Toulme: So Github actions is free,
Antoine Toulme: which is pretty unbeatable.
Sally MacFarlane: So I I understood that it was free up to a point.
Sally MacFarlane: But it in your it's like, Is it free for you?
Antoine Toulme: No, I think it's free,
Antoine Toulme: because this is a public resource, and this is a public uh repository. It is free
No,
Antoine Toulme: to to completely answer your question, because it i'm not trying to miscomp for anything it's We are using a specific machine for some of the docker builds especially for for for for even for native bills uh, because based on native moved over to using Github Ci and um
Antoine Toulme: for that one we had to get a Mac um machine. It's it could have done a better job. But the repository so
Antoine Toulme: hard to work with that it was easier to just say one particular os in architecture. It's going to be one version of the build, and we're going to run all four bills and then get the combination of all those bills as out to it, and then combine them into ours. Right? So.
Antoine Toulme: Um, So that one we are being for a runner, a runner, because you can actually, with with Github you can choose to use your own hardware to run your tests
Antoine Toulme: Right? So um for for those um we are using one runner, which is actual M. One machine that is hosted and paid for by the Hyper Ledger Foundation. However, it's a fixed cost, not
Antoine Toulme: not really to how many how much we use it. It's also shared across many projects and a hybrid.
Antoine Toulme: So it's kind of a great architecture to kind of shape from that makes sense.
Sally MacFarlane: Thanks anyone.
Jason Frame: So the cost to be produced then, because it's mostly, for example, that runner Um, which is a shared cost
Antoine Toulme: because it should be negligible.
Antoine Toulme: I think you might make things a little easier in terms of debugging sometimes or less. You know people have moved on to use get to actions across many, many workflows. That's what I use my day job.
Antoine Toulme: Um, I would hope that it helps contributors
Jason Frame: we are.
Jason Frame: It's it?
Jason Frame: Uh yeah, Thank you for the up down there, and that's good. It sounds like It's. As for request. Um,
Simon Dudley: I have a question about the parallelism. Um! So it looks like just looking at the Pr: It looks like the um. It's the unit test. And the reference test that are paralyzed at the moment is the Am I reading number. Right?
Antoine Toulme: Yeah, yeah, that's fine.
Simon Dudley: Is it possible? And is there a plan to um do the same with the acceptance test?
Antoine Toulme: So the way we uh This is a good question. The way we do the polarization is we we find all the
Antoine Toulme: let me go slowly, so I remember at the same time. Um. We find all the source test, Java, for all of the modules in grow. Then
Antoine Toulme: from there we back out, and we find um. We recreate the instructions for gruddle right? So if you have a module under the Evm, let's say, then, Edm. Test is the desk you would call. Then we need to find that there's a source test. Java and Vm. Then from there on we we do a little bit of I can reg it to to eventually get back to a string that says,
Antoine Toulme: you know Ivm test. So then we do that for all the modules, and that creates a long list of all the projects and all the test tests. Then we use a plugin from from Github actions in action itself that splits this list across and gives us um different
Antoine Toulme: different runners, right? So each runner now gets uh a part of that list. The acceptance test are in one module.
Antoine Toulme: So if we wanted to analyze on that we would need to apply the same approach. But it would be a bit more complicated, because I would need to go into the sense of this and find out how to create a list of all the tests there, and how to then split that least across um.
Antoine Toulme: I felt that was probably not going to be necessary. Here is why the exception to themselves take about eleven minutes to execute, when some of you need to take up to twenty minutes,
Antoine Toulme: so
Antoine Toulme: we could. Probably, I think there's actually one project, one module which is responsible for the brunt of the load
Antoine Toulme: in the test. So it's difficult to cut that down.
Antoine Toulme: But we could.
Simon Dudley: Okay, Thanks. That's interesting.
Yeah,
Antoine Toulme: it was fun to play with. If you look, if it can run this guitar thing about fifty times
Jason Frame: it won't be it for the release updates. Um, I think we've already done some of the workup dates, but um, we don't have some other ones in here. Um! We don't talk about the Java Seventeen um going to the twenty-two
Jason Frame: You know we're gonna have that with the discussion the discovery Channel um.
Jason Frame: I guess we'll just have to.
Jason Frame: We'll have that discussion there. I don't think anyone who is actually working here today.
Jason Frame: Are there any other work updates that they want to talk about in school.
Jason Frame: Okay?
Jason Frame: And
Sally MacFarlane: oh, there's not one there. So I I just said it So that's the Pr. To um the Java Seventeen. That's the link to the javascript. Yeah,
Sally MacFarlane: just just for complaints. Um,
Sally MacFarlane: yeah. So I decided there's two proposed Um.
Sally MacFarlane: Yes, I've been providing for proposed changes to my maintenance. So maybe one person to emeritus and adding one maintainer, I think everyone on this call is already voted. But just for
Jason Frame: okay, yeah, so you could, if everyone can. Um add that back to this.
Jason Frame: Is there anything else? Any other business?
Jason Frame: Okay, it looks like That's everything's on the agenda. So if no one else has a has anything else, I think that's it for today.
Simon Dudley: Bye, bye,